.TH KeyboardBindings 1  "mai 06, 2007" "version 3.0.5" "FVWM-Crystal"
.SH NAME
\fBFVWM-Crystal Keyboard Bindings Reference
\fB
.SH AUTHOR
Maciej Delmanowski <harnir@berlios.de>
.SH DESCRIPTION
In this file you can find all keyboard bindings used in FVWM-Crystal desktop.
.SS LEGEND
.TP
.B
Alt
Meta (Alt)
.TP
.B
Win_L
Windows Left
.TP
.B
Win_R
Windows Right
.TP
.B
Menu
a "menu" key
.TP
.B
KP_
means that following key is on the numeric keyboard
.TP
.B
LMB
Left Mouse Button
.TP
.B
RMB
Right Mouse Button
.TP
.B
MMB
Middle Mouse Button
.SH TERMINAL WINDOWS
.TP
.B
Alt + ` (grave)
Opens "QuakeConsole", a terminal similar to console available in FPP games, like Quake series. It's a normal terminal where you can launch commands. It stays on top of other windows, is visible on all desktops. When you press Alt+` again, it will roll up and hide, waiting for your next press of Alt+`, when it will show up again, so you can launch a command in this terminal and hide it.
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + ` (grave)
It will open new terminal window, Aterm by default.
.TP
.B
Alt + ;
Opens FvwmConsole in the lower-left corner of the screen, where you can issue FVWM commands, and sometimes see error messages. The same combination will hide/unhide it.
.SH SYSTEM AND APPLICATIONS MENU
.TP
.B
Alt + Menu
Opens a small menu with all the menus from ApplicationPanel and Docklet. You can navigate the menu using cursor keys, or h, j, k, l, Escape cancels the selection, Enter selects a menu position.
.TP
.B
Alt + Win_R
Opens an /Applications menu which contains a list of available applications. You can use arrow keys or hjkl to move between menu entries, Enter to select an entry and Escape to close the menu.
.SH DESKTOP SWITCHING AND MOVING WINDOWS BETWEEN DESKTOPS
.TP
.B
Alt + Escape
Swiches between two last used pages of the desktop.
.TP
.B
Alt + F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7, F8
Switches to the selected page of the desktop, from 1 to 8.
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7, F8
Moves active window to selected page, from 1 to 8.
.TP
.B
Alt + [
Go to the page on the left side of the current one.
.TP
.B
Alt + ]
Go to the page on the right side of the current one.
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + [
Move the focused window to the page on the left side of the current one and go there.
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + ]
Move the focused window to the page on the right side of the current one and go there.
.SH WINDOW MOVEMENT ON A SINGLE DESKTOP
.TP
.B
Alt + h, j, k, l
Move windows to selected screen edge, centered:
.PP
.nf
.fam C
 .                j
 .              h   k
 .                l
.fam T
.fi
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + h, j, k, l
Move windows to selected screen corner:
.PP
.nf
.fam C
 .              h  k
 .              j  l

.fam T
.fi
.SH WINDOW AND ICON LIST
.TP
.B
Alt + Tab
Shows a list of opened windows on the current page, allows you to switch between them. Last active window will be at the end of the list, previously active window will be at the top - that way quickly pressed and released Alt+Tab will switch between two last used windows.
Alt + Shift + Tab Shows a list of iconified windows, with thumbnails. After releasing Alt selected window will show up on the current page. Escape cancels this operation.
.SH WINDOW RESIZER
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0
Resizes currently focused window in different ways. Try it to see what happens :)
.SH MUSIC PLAYER AND AUDIO MIXER
.TP
.B
Alt + Z
Selects prevouse track in music player.
.TP
.B
Alt + X
Starts playback in music player.
.TP
.B
Alt + C
Pauses playback in music player.
.TP
.B
Alt + V
Stops playback in music player.
.TP
.B
Alt + B
Selects next track in music player.
.TP
.B
Alt + N
Selects prevous track ignoring "Shuffle" setting in music player.
.TP
.B
Alt + M
Selects next track ignoring "Shuffle" setting in music player.
.TP
.B
Alt + ,
Lowers the volume by 10%.
.TP
.B
Alt + .
Raises the volume by 10%.
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + ,
Lowers the volume by 5%.
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + .
Raises the volume by 5%.
.TP
.B
Alt + / (slash)
Activates the search function of the music player (currently only XMMS with XMMS-Find)
Alt + Shift + / (slash) Toggles sequential/random playback
.SH NUMERIC KEYBOARD
.SS WINDOW FOCUS
.TP
.B
KP_1, KP_2, KP_3, KP_4, KP_6, KP_7, KP_8, KP_9
Change focus in the selected direction from the currently focused window.
.TP
.B
KP_5
Switch focus between two closest windows on the current page.
.SS WINDOW MOVEMENT
.TP
.B
Alt + KP_1, KP_2, KP_3, KP_4, KP_5, KP_6, KP_7, KP_8, KP_9
Move currently focused window to the selected part of the screen, corresponding to the numbers on the numeric keyboard. Pressing it twice very fast moves a window instantly.
.SS WINDOW CONTROLS
.TP
.B
KP_0 or Alt + - (substract)
Raise currently focused window.
.TP
.B
KP_. or Alt + - (substract)
Lower currently focused window.
.TP
.B
KP_/
Shade or unshade currently focused window.
.TP
.B
Alt + KP_/
Stick or unstick currently focused window.
.TP
.B
KP_* or Alt + = (equal)
Maximize currently focused window.
.TP
.B
Alt + KP_* or Alt + Shift + = (equal)
Make currently focused window a "fullscreened" window. It looses the titlebar and border and is maximized to the entire screen. Fullscreened window cannot be lowered or iconified. Pressing Alt+KP_* on the fullscreened window brings back the titlebar and border and resizes a window to it's previous size and position.
.TP
.B
Alt + KP_- or Alt + Backspace
Iconifies currently focused window (or makes a thumbnail).
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + KP_- or Alt + Shift + Backspace
Closes currently focused window.
.TP
.B
KP_+
Moves window to the default layer, where are "normal" windows.
.TP
.B
Alt + KP_+
Moves window to the upper layer, where are "always on top" windows.
.TP
.B
Alt + Shift + KP_+
Moves window to the lower layer, where are "always at botton" windows.
.SH OTHER FUNCTIONS
.TP
.B
Print Screen
Makes a screenshot of the entire desktop in .jpg format and puts it in '~/.fvwm/screenshots/' directory (by default).
.TP
.B
Alt + Home
Move mouse cursor to "home position" - top left corner of the screen.
