.TH MouseBindings 1  "mai 05, 2007" "version 3.0.5" "FVWM-Crystal"
.SH NAME
\fBFVWM-Crystal Mouse Bindings Reference
\fB
.SH AUTHOR
Maciej Delmanowski <harnir@gna.org>
.SH DESCRIPTION
In this file you can find all mouse bindings used in FVWM-Crystal desktop.
.SS LEGEND
.TP
.B
Alt
Meta (Alt)
.TP
.B
Win_L
Windows Left
.TP
.B
Win_R
Windows Right
.TP
.B
Menu
a "menu" key
.TP
.B
KP_
means that following key is on the numeric keyboard
.TP
.B
LMB
Left Mouse Button
.TP
.B
RMB
Right Mouse Button
.TP
.B
MMB
Middle Mouse Button
.SH THE DESKTOP
.TP
.B
LMB (+ hold)
In selected recipes open applications or system menu.
.TP
.B
RMB
Open a terminal window.
.TP
.B
MMB
Toggle the ability to switch desktop pages using screen edge (off/on, defult off).
.TP
.B
Alt + MMB
Hide or show desktop panels.
.SH WINDOW THUMNAILS
.TP
.B
Doubleclick LMB
Bring back minimized window.
.TP
.B
RMB
Open a terminal window.
.TP
.B
Alt + MMB
Close selected window.
.SH WINDOW
.TP
.B
Alt + LMB
Raise selected window.
.TP
.B
Alt + LMB + drag
Raise window and move it on the screen.
.TP
.B
Alt + RMB
Lower selected window.
.TP
.B
Alt + RMB + drag
Move window on the screen without raising.
.TP
.B
Alt + MMB
Resize selected window (move bottom-right corner).
.SH WINDOWS TITLEBAR
.TP
.B
LMB
Raise selected window.
.TP
.B
LMB + drag
Raise window and move it on the screen.
.TP
.B
RMB
Lower selected window.
.TP
.B
RMB + drag
Move window on the screen without raising.
.TP
.B
MMB
Shade or unshade window.
.TP
.B
MMB + drag
Resize selected window (choose window \fBedge\fP(s) to move).
.SH TITLEBAR BUTTONS
.TP
.B
LMB, RMB, MMB + hold
Show button \fBmenu\fP(s).
.SH FVWM CRYSTAL BUTTONS MODEL
.SS CLOSE BUTTONS
.TP
.B
LMB
Close selected window.
.TP
.B
RMB
Iconify selected window.
.TP
.B
MMB
Identify selected window.
.TP
.B
Alt + MMB
Destroy (kill) selected window.
.SS MAXIMISE BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Maximize window.
.TP
.B
Alt + LMB
Take the free space (to the next windows).
.TP
.B
RMB
Maximize window horizontally.
.TP
.B
Alt + RMB
Take the free space horizontally.
.TP
.B
MMB
Maximize window vertically.
.TP
.B
Alt + MMB
Take the free space horizontally.
.SS WINDOW OPTIONS BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Set window to stay on top.
.TP
.B
Alt + LMB
Set window to stay on bottom.
.TP
.B
RMB
Toggle sticky window mode.
.TP
.B
MMB
Set window in "normal" mode (clears stay on top/bottom).
.SS ARROWS BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Move selected window to the left (upper) desktop page.
.TP
.B
Alt + LMB
Go to the left (upper) page with selected window.
.TP
.B
RMB
Move selected window to the right (lower) desktop page.
.TP
.B
Alt + RMB
Go to the right (lower) page with selected window.
.TP
.B
MMB
Move selected window to the previously active desktop page.
.TP
.B
Alt + MMB
Go to the previously active desktop page with selected window.
.SH OTHER BUTTON MODELS
.SS CLOSE BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Close window.
.TP
.B
RMB (in OS/2 and NeXTStep button model)
Iconify window.
.SS MAXIMISE BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Maximize window.
.TP
.B
Alt + LMB
Take the free space (to the next windows).
.TP
.B
RMB
Maximize window horizontally.
.TP
.B
Alt + RMB
Take the free space horizontally.
.TP
.B
MMB
Maximize window vertically.
.TP
.B
Alt + MMB
Take the free space horizontally.
.SS ICONIFY BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Iconify window.
.SH APPLICATIONS PANEL
.TP
.B
LMB
Open the menu of selected application group.
.TP
.B
RMB
Launch application which is shown on the app panel.
.SH DESKTOP PAGER
.TP
.B
LMB
Switch to selected desktop/page.
.TP
.B
RMB
Switch to selected region.
.TP
.B
MMB
Move selected miniature window to a different desktop page, or move outside the pager window to the current desktop.
.SH WINDOW PANEL
(shows currently opened windows)
.TP
.B
LMB
Go to the window's desktop page, raise and focus it.
.TP
.B
RMB
Bring selected window to the current page, raise and focus it.
.TP
.B
MMB
Iconify/deiconify selected window.
.SH ICON PANEL
(shows currently iconified windows)
.TP
.B
LMB
Bring back iconified window on the current page, raise and focus it.
.TP
.B
RMB
Go to the window's desktop page, bring window back, raise and focus it.
.SH CLOCK
.TP
.B
LMB, MMB
Toggle between date and time display.
.TP
.B
RMB
Toggle between 12h and 24h time format.
.SH FVWM CRYSTAL BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Open the system menu.
.TP
.B
RMB
Change wallpaper randomly.
.SH PLAY BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Open the music player menu.
.TP
.B
RMB
Toggle playback/pause.
.TP
.B
MMB
Show/hide music player's \fBwindow\fP(s).
.TP
.B
Mouse wheel
Raise or lower volume.
.SH FORWARD BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Select next song on the playlist or select next random song (depends on the shuffle mode).
.TP
.B
RMB
Select previous song on the playlist or select previous random song (depends on the shuffle mode).
.TP
.B
Mouse wheel
Select next/previous random song or select next/previous song on the playlist (depends on the shuffle mode, opposite function of the mouse buttons).
.SH WINDOWS BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB
Show list of currently opened windows.
.TP
.B
RMB
Show list of currently iconified windows.
.TP
.B
MMB
Place again all windows on the current desktop page.
.SH DESKTOP BUTTON
.TP
.B
LMB or RMB
Show/hide desktop pager window.
.TP
.B
MMB
Go to previously active desktop page.
.TP
.B
Mouse wheel
Go to next/previous desktop page.
